							LECTURE 01 

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Course: 		Sustainability Now!
Section:		0.1_SystemsAnalysis
Prezy:			Prezy-Lecture-01_SystemsAnalysis
Licenciatura: 	
Grupo:			

\1 Fundamental Systems Concepts and Perspectives 

-----------
Why Systems Analysis?

	Sustainability is a set of concepts translated to direct actions across multiple,
	interlinked complex adaptive systems (CAS).


	Traditional reductionist science is not so helpful when managing the behavior
	of complex adaptive systems ...."The whole is greater than the sum of the parts"


------------
Complex Adaptive Systems

	CAS are composed of diverse, interconnected, semi-autonomous parts that learn and change through experience. These systems undergo continuous adaptation, self-organization, and emergent behavior as they interact with their environment.

	Complex:
		numerous interdependent agents (components) interacting in relationships that are 
		often non-linear... small changes can create massive, disproportionate effects, making precise, long-term predictions difficult

	Adaptive: 
		agents can learn, mutate, and update their behavior based on past experiences and environmental feedback

	System:
		an entity defined by energetic and informational flows that operate across various boundaries at various spatio-temporal scales


	CAS are are self-organized entities that use information and energy to create feedback loops. This allows for the emergence of unique and resilient behaviors ..... micro-level interactions can shape macro-level patterns

	Emergence: 
		Globally coherent structures and patterns (like a flock of birds or market trends) emerge from simple local rules, not from central command.

	Self-Organization: 
		The system automatically reorganizes its internal structure to cope with external changes without outside intervention.

	Feedback Loops:
		Actions in the system loop back to cause new actions. Positive loops amplify changes, while negative loops dampen changes.

	Resilience:
		CAS have features (e.g., redundancy and modularity) that allow the entity to withstand damage or disruptions without collapsing.


	CAS = Life!!


------------
Interlinked CAS Examples



------------






