-

-- Mini-Analysis: Edgar Allen Poe, "The Cask of Amontillado"
“The Cask of Amontillado” is a story about betrayal and revenge. The narrator, Montressor, feels betrayed and offended by Fortunato, who has allegedly bad-mouthed Montressor behind his back. In his turn, Montresor betrays Fortunato by tricking him into a death trap: sealing him into a brick-walled coffin where he will be "buried alive"!

“The thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as I best could, but when he ventured upon insult I vowed revenge. You, who so well know the nature of my soul, will not suppose, however, that gave utterance to a threat. At length I would be avenged; this was a point definitely, settled --but the very definitiveness with which it was resolved precluded the idea of risk. I must not only punish but punish with impunity. A wrong is unredressed when retribution overtakes its redresser. It is equally unredressed when the avenger fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong. ”
	― Edgar Allan Poe, The Cask of Amontillado 


Mood has to do with the way a person feels while reading; therefore, word choice, imagery, and figures of speech that are used in a story can contribute to creating a distinct feeling for audiences. Poe creates an eerie mood in "The Cask of Amontillado" by describing the environment surrounding Fortunado and Montressor as they walk down a long passage through catacombs and wine vaults. The scene is also at night, which makes the sentences in the excerpt provided spookier. The sentences which help to create this eerie mood are as follows:

1. "We had passed through long walls of piled skeletons, with casks and puncheons intermingling, into the inmost recesses of the catacombs."
2. "It hangs like moss upon the vaults. We are below the river's bed. The drops of moisture trickle among the bones."
3. "He laughed and threw the bottle upwards with a gesticulation I did not understand."


The first example from the excerpt as shown above points out that the two men walk past piled skeletons. The fact that skeletons are piled on top of each other suggests carelessness and disregard for those who have died. Not only that, seeing corpses or skeletons lying about haphazardly can certainly give someone the heebie-jeebies. Then, knowing that they are deep inside of catacombs might give someone a claustrophobic feeling, which isn't comfortable, either.

Next, Montressor points out that they are below the river and that water is getting in among the bones. The mood at this moment is not only creepy but gives off an unsafe feeling. It is eerie to think that a leak could spring out of the rocks and bones to drown the men at any moment! 

Finally, and most surprisingly, Fortunado appears to be losing his mind. Of course, he is drunk; but when he laughs, throws the wine bottle up, and behaves in a way that Montresor doesn't understand, this shows that he is unpredictable, which compounds the intensity of the eerie scene. 


